“Actionable Tweets” is basically a project for the betterment of people. This project is majorly for the people who are stranded somewhere and are unable to get help due to a disaster. Actionable tweets are those tweets in which people in a crisis are requesting
help. Majority of the time what happens is that the tweets in which people are requesting help do not get as many likes, retweets and reach as the other non-actionable tweets such as random tweets with death toll information etc. So, what happens is that the tweets in which people are requesting help don’t show up on the twitter feed as frequently as compared to the other generic tweets related to the specific disaster. We have developed a system which is capable of detecting and differentiating between an actionable and a non-actionable tweet which in turn can be really helpful to rescue and relief organizations for post-disaster recovery efforts. For Example, these organizations can benefit from our system by feeding it large volumes of tweets about a specific disaster and in return our system can provide them with relevant and actionable tweets
and they can act on the crucial information they receive from those actionable tweets. Previous research in this domain has extensively explored the training of machine learning models for the identification of actionable tweets. However, the primary focus of
these studies has been on achieving optimal accuracy, with limited emphasis on the proper development of a user-friendly interface or a comprehensive system to accompany the models. These models which are already trained mainly use keyword filtering,
crowd-sourcing approaches and generic machine learning approaches. In our project, a mobile application is developed so that rescue and relief organizations can interact with the system and view the predicted actionable tweets and the information in these actionable tweets can in turn help these organizations for post-disaster recovery efforts.
For the training of our machine learning model we have used Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT) which is a transformer based model.
